Remember, at the beginning, I said that the inbuilt JavaScript alert() function is a system object, meaning
we can't change its layout?
So then how do we get really cool JavaScript alert tabs showing up?
Well, I'm not going to use plugins, because this course is about teaching you JavaScript. And let's
just create one.
Let's create one ourselves with vanilla
HTML, CSS and JavaScript.
So as always, let's start with an HTML document.
And let's create a button.
And now let's create an onclick function, and let's say that
its called alertMe(). And you can see on the right, we've got our button here "Click me".
But of course, nothing happens when we click it.
Now, before we get into the JavaScript, I actually want to create what the alert will look like. And
how I like thinking of it, is lets create a div, a div tag that contains our entire alert.
And then within that div tag, I just want to have a heading, lets say "This is a warning message". And then
I want a button that the user can click OK.
So let's do that.
Let's have a div tag and let's say it has an "id" of
confirm. This is going to be the whole tag containing the alert. Then I want the heading. Let's have another
div, and let's say that's just the message.
The class message.
This is a warning message.
And then let's have a button.
Let's just say, class is "yes".
I don't know why,
you can say anything.
If I save that, it just looks like "gubbelyGoo" on the Web page. There is our message. There is our Ok button. Again
it does nothing.
Now, before we do JavaScript, I just want to style this warning message quickly. And
I know this is not good practice, but I'm just going to put the style in the head.
I don't want to create external stylesheets and all that now.
We can just do it together quickly.
So what should we do first?
Well, let's do this entire div first.
So this is just using our standard CSS styling techniques, I'm identifying the id of "confirm" and now
we can style it together.
Let's display it as a block.
Let's put a background
color of
I dunno,
58, 58, 58.
There you go, starting to see some results.
Position: fixed.
Border
Let's do 2 pixels, solid red.
Just showing you kind of how this thing is being made up.
Let's put this in the center.
Let's make it a bit wider.
It's a bit far to the right, so let's just push it left a little bit.
Margin-left,
I know this is not the most ideal way to do things, but I'm just trying to get the job done to show you
kind of hard it work's.
And now let's just put some padding.
And let's align the text to the center.
There you go. It's getting there. It's getting there. I can kind of feel the vibe.
Let's now style this warning message.
What did we call it? We called it "message".
Let's make it a white color, so we can actually read it.
And what else do we need?
We need, it needs margin, it looks terrible. Magin-top,
margin-bottom,
that should ...
not working ... margin-top, margin-bottom, you see, its starting to look much better. And then lastly,
let's style this OK button because it looks terrible.
So again, what we call that? We called that a "button".
Confirm, and then it's a button.
What should we do with that?
Let's do a background-color
rgb
It's going to look hideous.
So let's changes its color.
Maybe we do a nice red.
Let's don't have exactly square borders.
It doesn't look that nice, in my opinion.
Slightly rounded edges- probably don't even see it, but it's a nice, subtle improvement on design.
We can now do a border.
It's looking already a bit better.
The margin-bottom needs a bit of work.
Margin-bottom.
There you go.
And the other thing I want to show you, is
when my mouse hovers over the OK, I want it to become a pointer. So quickly lets do that.
Cursor
pointer.
Now, when I hover over it, it becomes a pointer so you know its a button. Cool hey.
Let's make it a bit wider.
Maybe a bit less.
This just add some padding.
OK, so I say it's looking good.
I say that's looking like, let me just pull this in a bit,
I say that's looking like a nice alert tab - way better than the other pop up that we saw. And you can design these
things however you like, I've just done a really rough job.
Now, let's add JavaScript, okay let's JavaScript. Let's go to the top,
remember JavaScript has to be within script tags.
And where should we put it?
Let's put it at the top here, let's put it at the very top. Okay, script
script.
Let's hide this whole confirmation warning box.
So at the moment, we've got 'display:block". Let's just go "display:none", and we should see that disappear.
But when we click this button, we want to see it.
Well, the first thing we need to do, is we need to start creating a function for when this button is clicked,
right?
If we look down and we just scroll down to the bottom of the code, you can see this button has
a function that we've called alertMe().
We need to now define that function in JavaScript.
Otherwise, nothing happens, which is what's happening here.
So let's start defining a function called alertMe().
Function alertMe.
And what do we want to happen?
Well, the first thing we want to happen is we want to display an error message. And in order to do that,
we've got to identify that whole div tag that has that whole alert, which we defined with an id of "confirm".
So let's call it confirmBox, for lack of a better word,  document,
remember, it's your web page.,
JavaScript has an inbuilt method called getElementById().
And we called the id "confirm".
So now we've got it.
Then the second thing we want to do is, you know when that alert is open, there is that OK button.
We want to identify the OK button because when that
OK button is clicked, we want that modal,
or that popup alert, to disappear.
That's the second thing we to do. Let
okayButton equal document getElementsByClassName. What class name did we call that again? We called
it
"yes".
Now, if we just left it at this, it's actually going to return ... when you find an element by getElementsByClassName, it returns
what's called a "NodeList".
And it's almost like an Array like object.
So this isn't quite enough.
We've just got to access the first element of that array.
Which is what that is doing there. Now that we have this OK button, what we want to do is we
want to define an onclick event, that when the user clicks on that OK button, that whole dialog box
disappears.
So let's do that.
And let me add comments here, and we went through comments. This is the button within the
alert modal.
And now we want
to hide the alert modal when the button is clicked.
So let's do that. So let's add
an event listener
onclick. So, okayButton.onclick, and here we have to define a function again.
And let's do it all in one step.
And you'll see later, we actually don't have to write out this big keyword,
there's a shorter way to do it, which is new syntax, I'll teach you that later.
I just want you to understand what it is we're doing here.
Then another inbuilt method within the browser and JavaScript and DOM is setAttribute.
You can literally change attributes of different elements in your page.
So let's grab that confirm box which we've defined above, and we can set an attribute. And what
attribute to we want to set? Well remember, we want it to be displayed now as "none" when the button is clicked.
With the setAttribute, we wanna make the "style" as the first argument to this method,
and the second one is what we want to change, and that is "display: none".
Simple, right?
So now we've defined what happens with the button within the alert modal, but we haven't actually shown
the modal anyway, so we can't do anything with it.
Well, let's just put it up here and say show modal.
We can write confirmBox
setAttribute
we wanna effect the "style"
and we want to display
to be block.
Should we give it a go?
Should we test our code? Let's see if it works.
Click the button.
Huh.
What's gone wrong here?
alertMe why is this not working when I go click.
alertMe ... so something we can check is if we console.log, here, we can log "hi", to see if the
click event is working. And let's just go to the console.
And let's click the button, you can see nothing's happening.
So obviously, this alertMe function is not being called. The question is why?
It's all done in ...
Ahh ... onlick. It should be on ...
CLICK.
Let's check if that works now.
Click me. There's our "hi", and there is our warning.
Okay, great.
So let me hide that. Let me delete that, refresh the page,   when I click, it comes up.
We've identified this okayButton so when I click OK, it's going to execute this function,
which says I want to set the attribute to "display: none".
And it disappears.
So this is really an example of how we've created an alert from scratch from literally scratch. From using HTML
CSS and a bit of JavaScript, and we've literally created our own custom designed alert.
This is awesome.
And this is going to set you on the path to being an awesome programmer. Let's continue.